CodeofConduct.md, before:

[Code for DC](http://codefordc.org/) [Code of Conduct](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_of_conduct)
=============

Code for DC is an organization that is about getting people together to use techonlogy to empower people to solve local issues within their local community. The goal is to foster meaningful collaboration between volunteers of Code for DC, the public, government, companies and nonprofits.

Anti-Harassment Policy 
-------------

Code for DC is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone , regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of in any form. Those violating these rules may face repercussions at the discretion of the Code for DC organizers. 

Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention. 

Conflict Resolution
-------------
*Step 1)* If you are being harassed or if you notice that someone else is being harassed please inform this person that they have affected you negatively. Make it clear that you consider this beahvior harrassment. Do not apologize (it's not your fault) but remember to attack the behavior (not the person) If you feel uncomfortable directly engaging this person please contact one of the Code for DC organizers ([Matt](mailto:mbailey@codeforamerica.org), [Justin](mailto:jgrimes@codeforamerica.org), & [Leah](mailto:lbannon@codeforamerica.org)) to inform us of the situtation. 

*Step 2)*

*Step 3)*

Repercussions
-------------
The person engaged in harassing behavior will be asked to stop any harassing behavior. If a person engaged in harassing behavior is considered egregious or if this harassing behavior continues then organizers may take action to resolve this situation.

If an incident occurs, please use the following contact information:

*Code for DC organizers*

* Justin Grimes (202) 670-2010 [@justgrimes](http://www.twitter.com/justgrimes) [jgrimes@codeforamerica.org](mailto:jgrimes@codeforamerica.org)
* Leah Bannon [@leahbannon](http://www.twitter.com/leahbannon) [lbannon@codeforamerica.org](mailto:lbannon@codeforamerica.org)
* Matt Bailey [@mattbailey0](http://www.twitter.com/mattbailey0) [mbailey@codeforamerica.org](mailto:mbailey@codeforamerica.org)

*Code for America staff*

[brigade-info@codeforamerica.org](brigade-info@codeforamerica.org)

Expectation
-------------
We expect all Code for DC participants to follow these rules at all events and in all online communication channels.


General Words of Wisdom 
-------------
"Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other attendees. Behave professionally." - PyCon Code of Conduct, 2013

"Treat others the way they want to be treated." - Platinum Rule (like the Golden Rule but better)

"Be excellent to each other" - Abe Lincoln from Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure 

[Wheaton's Law](http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/wheatons-law)

See also
-------------
* [TechLady Hackathon Guidelines for Awesomeness]
(https://techlady.hackpad.com/Guidelines-for-Awesomeness-V26mdDno80N)
* [Code for Kansas City](https://github.com/codeforkansascity/antiharassment-policy)
* [Geek Feminism Wiki Conference anti-harassment/Policy](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy)
* [Ada Initiative Conference anti-harassment policy](http://adainitiative.org/what-we-do/conference-policies/)

Commit message:

expanded the policy
added more detail; cleaned up structure

CodeofConduct.md, after:

[Code for DC](http://codefordc.org/) [Code of Conduct](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_of_conduct)
=============

Code for DC is an organization that is about getting people together to use techonlogy to empower people to address local issues within their local community. The goal is to foster meaningful collaboration between volunteers of Code for DC, the public, government, companies and nonprofits. Toward that goal Code for DC strives to create a safe space for all of it's events. A place where anyone can relax and fully express themselves without fear of being made to feel uncomfortable, unwelcomed, or unsafe based on their gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age or religion. Code for DC does not tolerate harassment of any form. To achieve this Code for DC enforces an anti-harassment policy. Those violating this policy may face repercussions at the discretion of the Code for DC organizers. 

Anti-Harassment Policy 
-------------

Code for DC is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone , regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age or religion. 

Harassment includes any offensive verbal or written comments relating to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion. Harrassment also includes but is not limited to deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, invasion of personal space, harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of talks or other events, unwarranted exclusion, inappropriate physical contact, physical attack, verbal threats, unwelcome sexual attention, derisory remarks, bullying, public humiliation, persistent unjustified criticism, insults or offensive jokes, intrusive questioning about a person's domestic circumstances, and patronizing language or action.

Confused about harrassment?
-------------
Sometimes harrassment is not clear or rather harrassment is not understood to be harrassment by the person exhibiting harrassing behavior. For some people it may seem like there is a gray area between warm and welcoming behavior and what is unacceptable. Good conduct requires good judgement. If you are not sure if something is appropriate behavior, play it safe and assume it isn't. You are always free to talk to one of the organizers about your question. Remember it is your responsibility to realize if your behavior would have a negative impact on others.

What To Do If You Feel Harassed 
-------------
If is an emergency and you feel someone is in danger contact the police (911) or security immediately then notify the Code for DC organizers.

If you are being harassed or if you notice that someone else is being harassed please inform this person that they have affected you negatively. Make it clear that you consider this beahvior harrassment. Do not apologize (it's not your fault) but remember to attack the behavior (not the person). Also please inform organizers of the situation so that we have documentation of the incident (e.g. people involved, time of incident, behavior or circumstances surrounding the incident). Documentation helps us to resolve the issue. DRegardless of how you choose to proceed we will always respect your privacy. 

If you feel uncomfortable engaging this person please contact one of the Code for DC organizers ([Matt](mailto:mbailey@codeforamerica.org), [Justin](mailto:jgrimes@codeforamerica.org), & [Leah](mailto:lbannon@codeforamerica.org)) to inform us of the situtation. 

If you feel uncomfortable engaging the Code for DC organizers feel free to contact the Code for America Communities staff at [brigade-info@codeforamerica.org](mailto:brigade-info@codeforamerica.org). 

If an incident occurs, please use the following contact information:

*Code for DC organizers*

* Justin Grimes (202) 670-2010 [@justgrimes](http://www.twitter.com/justgrimes) [jgrimes@codeforamerica.org](mailto:jgrimes@codeforamerica.org)
* Leah Bannon [@leahbannon](http://www.twitter.com/leahbannon) [lbannon@codeforamerica.org](mailto:lbannon@codeforamerica.org)
* Matt Bailey [@mattbailey0](http://www.twitter.com/mattbailey0) [mbailey@codeforamerica.org](mailto:mbailey@codeforamerica.org)

*Code for America staff*

[brigade-info@codeforamerica.org](brigade-info@codeforamerica.org)

Repercussions 
-------------
The person engaged in harassing behavior will be asked to stop any harassing behavior. If a person engaged in harassing behavior is considered egregious, dangerous, or if this harassing behavior continues then organizers may take additional action to resolve this situation.

These actions include but are not limited to:
* Banning/blocking online participation 
* Immediate removal from the premises 
* Explusion/banning on participating in related events

Expectation
-------------
We expect all Code for DC participants to follow these rules at all events and in all online communication channels.

General Words of Wisdom 
-------------
"Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other attendees. Behave professionally." - PyCon Code of Conduct, 2013

"Treat others the way they want to be treated." - Platinum Rule (like the Golden Rule but better)

"Be excellent to each other" - Abe Lincoln from Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure 

[Wheaton's Law](http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/wheatons-law)

See also
-------------
* [TechLady Hackathon Guidelines for Awesomeness]
(https://techlady.hackpad.com/Guidelines-for-Awesomeness-V26mdDno80N)
* [Code for Kansas City](https://github.com/codeforkansascity/antiharassment-policy)
* [Geek Feminism Wiki Conference anti-harassment/Policy](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy)
* [Ada Initiative Conference anti-harassment policy](http://adainitiative.org/what-we-do/conference-policies/)
